Now here is the stencil project which we created in the last module
and first of all, I want to start a development server which is part of that project we created. For this,
I'll again open my integrated terminal here under view, integrated terminal or this terminal here
or use your normal system terminal or command prompt and navigate into this folder and then run npm
start.
Now this executes a script here in the package.json file, this start script that is triggered by that command
and this in the end runs a little development server.
Now what is a development server?
This is in the end a simple web server where we don't have to write any configuration or do any configuration,
which serves this index.html
file as well as all our build components and this build process happens in memory only in the
development server
which is why we don't see any output there. The dist output which we generated in the last module is
not used here,
this build process happens in memory and this allows us to simply preview our components, that's the
sole purpose of this development server.
When we later want to share our components, we don't have to share this server or use that server at all,
we will just share the output of the dist folder and I will show you how to use it in a later module
but here for development, we can simply serve that index.html
file through that development server and there as we are currently doing it by default with this
built-in component or with this default component the new project ships with,
we can simply add our components,
play around with them and test them.
The development server once started should have opened a new window in your browser,
otherwise you should manually visit http://www.localhost:3333
and there, you see the output of this first demo component with which we start
which is this my component thing.
Now we will replace that in the next lectures and write our own component from scratch to learn it
but this is now the development environment
we have. Definitely keep that npm start process running, it does not quit automatically,
you can always quit it with control c
but we want to keep it running because as long as it is running, it will watch all your components you
add in the source components folder for changes as well as it'll watch for the creation of new components
and it will also watch for changes in the index.html
file and it will automatically rebuild your components and reload this page
whenever you do change something.
So just to quickly demonstrate this, in this component there,
we output Hello World! with one exclamation mark.
If I add multiple exclamation marks and I save that file, it automatically picks that up and it reloads
here and that of course speeds up our development experience.
So this is the environment with which we'll work
and now, let's actually get rid of that component here,
simply delete it and also delete it here in index.html
and let's add a new component with which we can work to build it from scratch.